first draft for the required number of RSEs (#23)
CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE: paper_teaching-learning-RSE.md

The challenges of understanding the current state of skills within the research software community and related areas, as well as identifying required competencies, developing training pathways and providing training materials are areas that are being looked at and addressed by various groups and projects. In this section, we highlight some of these other projects and activities.

## Number of required RSE graduates

> In order to set up the argument for dedicated RSE education we need to estimate the number of required graduates.

Reviewer: argument,

Reviewer 2: In this context, I think I'd say the comma is not required...

Reviewer 2: In this context, I think I'd say the comma is not required...

We start from the number of researchers in Germany. The OECD Data [OECD2023] reports a number of 667,394 researchers in 2019.

> In public research alone we have better numbers and there have been 71733 researcher in 2020.

Reviewer: What exactly is meant by public researches, if OECD lists government researchers? University only? University + Helmholtz, RKI, DLR, etc.?

Reviewer 2: Suggested edit:
```suggestion
In public research alone we have better numbers and 71,733 researchers were recorded in 2020.
```

> In public research alone we have better numbers and there have been 71733 researcher in 2020.

Reviewer: 71,733 (otherwise it's hard to compare) researcher**s**

Taking a rough estimate of requiring around one RSE per 10 researchers (A number that has been put forward in another workshop
in Paderborn) brings us to a need of around 6.000 RSEs in Germany. Assuming an equal distribution with regard to age
and an average time in the RSE workforce of 40 years, yields an average need of around 150 RSEs per year.

> If we assume that half of the workforce is made up by researchers coming from other graduates and the other half are properly minted

Reviewer: How about "from domain specific graduation programs"?

> RSE graduates this yields that there is a requirement of around four dedicated RSE education places each producing graduating classes

Reviewer: graduates, 
"requirement for" instead of "of"?

Reviewer 2: Also, maybe "suggests" rather than "yields"?

## Number of required RSE graduates
In order to set up the argument for dedicated RSE education we need to estimate the number of required graduates.
We start from the number of researchers in Germany. The OECD Data [OECD2023] reports a number of 667,394 researchers in 2019.
In public research alone we have better numbers and there have been 71733 researcher in 2020.
Taking a rough estimate of requiring around one RSE per 10 researchers (FIXME!! Number anecdotal!!)(A number that has been put forward in another workshop
in Paderborn) brings us to a need of around 6.000 RSEs in Germany. Assuming an equal distribution with regard to age
and an average time in the RSE workforce of 40 years, yields an average need of around 150 RSEs per year.
If we assume that half of the workforce is made up by researchers coming from other graduates and the other half are properly minted
RSE graduates this yields that there is a requirement of around four dedicated RSE education places each producing graduating classes
of around 20 persons each year.

> This calculation assumes that RSEs do not move into into industry with their skillset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This calculation assumes that RSEs remain within the research community and do not move into industry with their transferable skillset.
```
